doc/user/installation.rst, before:

============
Installation
============

The package can be installed with `pip <https://pypi.org/project/pyebsdindex>`__,
`conda <https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/pyebsdindex>`__, or from source, and supports
Python >= 3.7. All alternatives are available on Windows, macOS and Linux.

In order to avoid potential conflicts with other system Python packages, it is strongly
recommended to use a virtual environment, such as ``venv`` or ``conda`` environments.

With pip
========

Installing all of PyEBSDIndex' functionalities with ``pip``::

    pip install pyebsdindex[all]

To install only the strictly required rependencies and limited functionalities, use::

    pip install pyebsdindex

See the following list of selectors to select the installation of optional dependencies
required for specific functionality:

- ``gpu`` - GPU support from `pyopencl
  <https://documen.tician.de/pyopencl/misc.html>`__. Please refer to the pyopencl
  installation documentation in case installation fails.
- ``parallel`` - Parallel indexing from `ray[default]
  <https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/>`__.
- ``all`` - Install the dependencies in the above selectors.
- ``doc`` - Dependencies to build the documentation.
- ``tests`` - Dependencies to run tests.
- ``dev`` - Install dependencies in the above selectors.

With conda
==========

GPU support is included when installing from Anaconda. On Linux or Windows::

    conda install pyebsdindex -c conda-forge

On macOS (without ``ray[default]``, which has to be installed separately)::

    conda install pyebsdindex-base -c conda-forge

From source
===========

Installing the package from source with optional dependencies for running tests::

    git clone https://github.com/USNavalResearchLaboratory/PyEBSDIndex
    cd PyEBSDIndex
    pip install -e .[tests]

Also, if you want to run the example Jupyter notebooks in the documentation, you will
need to install ``jupyterlab``::

    pip install jupyterlab

or::

    conda install jupyterlab

Additional installation notes
=============================

MacOS
-----

The latest versions of ``pyopencl`` installed from Anaconda do not automatically include
linking to the MacOS OpenCL framework. If using a ``conda`` environment, it may be
necessary to install::

    conda install -c conda-forge ocl_icd_wrapper_apple

Apple in recent installs has switched to ``zsh`` as the default shell. It should be
noted that ``zsh`` sees ``\[...\]`` as a pattern. Thus commands like::

    pip install pyebsdindex[gpu]

will return an error ``"zsh: no matches found: [gpu]"``. The solution is to put the
command within ``'...'`` such as::

    pip install 'pyebsdindex[gpu]'

MacOS with Apple Silicon
------------------------

The ``ray`` package used for distributed multi-processing only experimentally supports
Apple's ARM64 architecture. More info is available `here
<https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/ray-overview/installation.html>`_. In brief, to run on
Apple ARM64, PyEBSDIndex should be installed in a ``conda`` environment. Assuming that
``ray`` has already been installed (perhaps as a dependency) and one has activated the
conda environment in the terminal, run the commands below (the first two commands are to
guarantee that ``grpcio`` is fully removed, they may send a message that the packages
are not installed)::

    pip uninstall ray
    pip uninstall grpcio
    conda install -c conda-forge grpcio
    pip install 'ray[default]'

Commit message:

Release for 0.3.8  (#70)
Added
Ability to add micron bars to IPF and scalar values maps. Use the addmicronbar keyword
to makeipf and scalarimage functions.
When using ebsd_index function, if the machine has multiple GPUs, the desired GPU
can be chosen using the gpu_id keyword.
When making IPF maps, a grayscale mix can be added using graychannel keyword.
New pattern quality parameter, iq which is the mean intensity of the convolved peaks
divided by the mean intensity of the radon. Typical values are 1.8--2.0
Initial support for Thermo-Fisher .pat files.

doc/user/installation.rst, after:

============
Installation
============

The package can be installed with `pip <https://pypi.org/project/pyebsdindex>`__,
`conda <https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/pyebsdindex>`__, or from source, and supports
Python >= 3.9. All alternatives are available on Windows, macOS and Linux.

In order to avoid potential conflicts with other system Python packages, it is strongly
recommended to use a virtual environment, such as ``venv`` or ``conda`` environments.

With pip
========

Installing all of PyEBSDIndex' functionalities with ``pip``::

    pip install pyebsdindex[all]

To install only the strictly required rependencies and limited functionalities, use::

    pip install pyebsdindex

See the following list of selectors to select the installation of optional dependencies
required for specific functionality:

- ``gpu`` - GPU support from `pyopencl
  <https://documen.tician.de/pyopencl/misc.html>`__. Please refer to the pyopencl
  installation documentation in case installation fails.
- ``parallel`` - Parallel indexing from `ray[default]
  <https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/>`__.
- ``all`` - Install the dependencies in the above selectors.
- ``doc`` - Dependencies to build the documentation.
- ``tests`` - Dependencies to run tests.
- ``dev`` - Install dependencies in the above selectors.

With conda
==========

GPU support is included when installing from Anaconda. On Linux, macOS or Windows::

    conda install pyebsdindex -c conda-forge


From source
===========

Installing the package from source with optional dependencies for running tests::

    git clone https://github.com/USNavalResearchLaboratory/PyEBSDIndex
    cd PyEBSDIndex
    pip install -e .[tests]

Also, if you want to run the example Jupyter notebooks in the documentation, you will
need to install ``jupyterlab``::

    pip install jupyterlab

or::

    conda install jupyterlab

Additional installation notes
=============================

MacOS
-----

The latest versions of ``pyopencl`` installed from Anaconda do not automatically include
linking to the MacOS OpenCL framework. If using a ``conda`` environment, it may be
necessary to install (this should only be if installing from source. This is automatically
included when pyebsdindex is installed from conda-forge)::

    conda install -c conda-forge ocl_icd_wrapper_apple

Apple in recent installs has switched to ``zsh`` as the default shell. It should be
noted that ``zsh`` sees ``\[...\]`` as a pattern. Thus commands like::

    pip install pyebsdindex[gpu]

will return an error ``"zsh: no matches found: [gpu]"``. The solution is to put the
command within ``'...'`` such as::

    pip install 'pyebsdindex[gpu]'

MacOS with Apple Silicon
------------------------
The ``ray`` package used for distributed multi-processing only experimentally supports
Apple's ARM64 architecture. However, ray is now available on conda-forge, and does not
require a separate install on macOS.
